# Common Operating systems

As of the time of this writing, there are 2 major kinds of operating systems for
mobile devices, the [Android Operating system](https://source.android.com/) and
the [iOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOS)

On laptop uses [Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux),
[macOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacOS) and
[Windows](https://www.prepbytes.com/blog/operating-system/windows-operating-system/)
operating systems

## Android Operating system

The Android operating operating system is an
[open source](https://opensource.com/resources/what-open-source) operating
system developed by Google it is a Linux derivative, (discussed shortly). As of
this writing, Android is used in other environment beyond mobile phones, we have
it in smart wrist watches, on-board computer in vehicles, in homes, in Tv and
many more

## iOS

iOS is owned and managed by
[Apple Inc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_Inc.), they are the makers of
iPhones, iPad, Mac

## Linux

The linux isn't a kind of operating system, is is a family of operating systems,
think of it as a fruit basket, the content of this basket is called **distro**,
a fancy word for **distribution**, Popular linux distro include Ubuntu, Kali,
ParrotOS, Cent, Suse, and Fedora. They all have their strengths and default or
preferred use cases, for instances, Ubuntu is often used to run servers, robots
and Software development, while ParrotOS and Kali are used for penetration
testing otherwise known as hacking. Explaining the distro is beyond the scope of
this book, you can surf the internet for more.

## The mac Operating system

macOS is an open source software owned by Apple, it powers the apple laptops but
it can be downloaded and configured on non-apple laptops, the steps involved
here is also beyond the scope of this book.

## Windows Operating system

Unlike, Linux and mac operating system, the Windows operating system is a closed
source --- proprietary software, owned, managed and distribute by microsoft.


[^uses-of-android]:
<https://www.spiceworks.com/tech/tech-general/articles/android-os/>
